[
    {
        "id": "variables",
        "title": "Variables & Data Types",
        "summary": "Variables are containers that store data values in memory. In programming, each variable has a data type (like int, string, float, boolean) that determines what kind of data it can hold and what operations can be performed on it. Variables allow us to reuse values throughout our code without hardcoding them repeatedly.",
        "sample_question": "What is a variable and why do we need different data types? Give examples of at least three common data types."
    },
    {
        "id": "loops",
        "title": "Loops (Iteration)",
        "summary": "Loops are control structures that repeat a block of code multiple times. The three main types are: FOR loops (when you know how many iterations), WHILE loops (when you loop until a condition is false), and DO-WHILE loops (executes at least once before checking condition). Loops prevent code duplication and enable processing of collections.",
        "sample_question": "Explain the difference between a for loop and a while loop. When would you use each one?"
    },
    {
        "id": "functions",
        "title": "Functions & Methods",
        "summary": "Functions are reusable blocks of code that perform specific tasks. They take inputs (parameters), process them, and optionally return outputs. Functions promote code reusability, modularity, and maintainability. They help break complex problems into smaller, manageable pieces following the DRY principle (Don't Repeat Yourself).",
        "sample_question": "What is the difference between parameters and arguments? Why are functions important in programming?"
    },
    {
        "id": "oop",
        "title": "Object-Oriented Programming",
        "summary": "OOP is a programming paradigm based on objects that contain both data (attributes) and behavior (methods). The four pillars of OOP are: Encapsulation (bundling data and methods), Inheritance (creating new classes from existing ones), Polymorphism (same interface, different implementations), and Abstraction (hiding complex details).",
        "sample_question": "Explain the concept of inheritance in OOP with a real-world example. How does it promote code reuse?"
    }
]